# Pick-a-Book
## introduction
Pick-a-Book is a peer-to-peer marketplace for buying, selling and trading used books. Here users can post about their used books which they are interested in selling or exchanging. This platform will enable users to get their hands on their favorite books and book collections via buying or exchanging books with fellow bibliophiles. Moreover, users passionate about books can write blogs about their favorite books and stories on this platform. There is also a functionality which allows the users to find nearby libraries in their area
## Overview
At the beginning of our project, we selected nine websites that specialize in book selling and conducted a benchmark analysis to compare existing platforms and find the best practices in the industry. Using this benchmark analysis result, we selected seven primary features for our project. After that we conducted a survey to see what the market condition is and what the users thought of our features. With the help of the survey result we finalized out features list. We added two more features our project and removed the book renting feature from our feature list as it didn’t receive positive responses from the survey attendees. After fixing our feature list we did a SWOT analysis of our project and made the necessary diagrams for our project. Then we used some project management tool to assign each of our members with some features to implement. Finally, we implemented our project with the help of the diagrams that we made earlier. 
When users first visits Pick-a-Book they will be greeted by our homepage which lets them go to various pages like the login/sign up page, buy book page, exchange book page, nearby library search page, blogs page and the FAQ page. Non-registered users will be able to view buy book posts, exchange book posts and blogs but they won’t able perform any of the actions listed on those pages. Moreover, they won’t able to add any new posts or bogs. To perform those actions a user must first register to our website via the sign-up page. Then the user will be redirected to the login page where the user can log in to our website. Registered users will be able to add sell posts, exchange posts and blogs. Users can search buy book posts and exchange books posts in the search page where they can select a book category and search for books that contains the keyword they searched for. If a user wants to buy a book, he/she will have to first reserve the book. Once reserved the book will be reserved for a certain amount of time. During this period other users won’t be able to reserve the book. After reserving the book, the user can buy the book by clicking checkout in the cart page. A report containing the users addresses and the book being bought will be generated in the backend and will be forwarded to the deliveryman. If a user wants to exchange a book with another user, he/she can click the send offer button when visiting the exchange post page. The user will be redirected to a page with all his/her exchange posts. Here the user will be able to offer any of his exchange posts. Now if a user wants to check the offers, they received they can either visit the exchange post page to check offers or they can go to my exchange post page which will list all their exchange posts with a button to check offers for that post. If a user accepts an offer, then a report containing their address and the books they are exchanging will be generated in the backend which will be forwarded to the deliveryman. Registered users will also be able to write blogs by clicking the add blog button in the blogs page. They will also be able to add comments when viewing a blog. Finally, if a user wants to find nearby libraries, he/she can do that in the library search page. Both registered and non-registered users will be able to perform this action. The users will first enter the radius of the search. Then when they press the search button, they will be asked to give permission to access their location data to find the libraries. If the user gives permission to access his location data, then a list of libraries in the radius given earlier will be provided to the users. If a user wants to know more about a library, they can visit the library page which contains the name and address of the library along with an embedded google maps which point to the library. The user can then click the view larger map button in the embedded google maps to be redirected to google maps in order to use google maps features like directions, street view etc.
